So, it's rather warm. All right. As you please,
where do I keep this? That flower. You turn
it off. What flowers? Yes. Beautiful. Now,
If you can get my handkerchief from my purses and
my spectacles. Hm. Ask Marsha to
bring mother's purse and place.
today I was thinking
of talking or telling you about the sahaja
culture.
Now we have formed the dharma, Vishwa Dharma.
But it must have a culture.
So far in all the religions
there is no combination of religion and culture.
No religion has.
That's why everywhere
you find different cultures.
Now what is  a culture?
First of all let us see what is
a culture. So the culture is the pattern of
behavior we have with others.
So the culture of
the spirit doesn't change.
It's universal and is higher than any other culture.
Apart from that it
integrates all the essences of all the cultures.
So it emanates from the spirit. Now, spirit
has two sides.
One side which you see, the another you don't see. Like the moon.
The side you see is outside with other people,
other Sahaja Yogis, other people, other societies, which are not yourself, absolutely.
The other side you don’t see is the relationship with God Almighty, relationship with your Mother.
If the other side is not all right, the
behavioral side outside could become artificial,
could become crooked and not Sahaj. So it’s the other way round than any other culture.
But if you want to know the Sahaja culture, you have to know your Mother, and you have
to know God Almighty.
The relationship between your
Mother and the God Almighty has to be absolutely perfect.
Then there's no problem.
But that, the relationship, if it is not all right, you
cannot have artificial Sahaj culture.
That is one thing for sure. Artificial Sahaj culture is
not all right.
But to have the culture, first of all, culture is developed through meditation, by facing yourself.
First of all you should face yourself, how you feel about your Mother and about God Almighty.
Now if you are surrendered how do you
see the surrendering in a person?
You see, it has
one side, and the another is the expression.
Say a person who is surrendered
doesn’t talk much to Me, doesn’t talk, [he] listens,
doesn’t talk.
Common sense, [he] listens.
Even people who are very good, I’ve seen
when I’m talking, they’ll put in their own words in between.
People who are very good,
I should say.
So the surrendering is not full.
Surrendering has to be to that point that you shouldn’t worry.
If one can understand that, then you will not try to organize Me.
You can just tell Me,
“We have to leave at this time.”
But if I don’t have to leave, I will not leave whatever
you may do.
Spirit is never upset, never excited,
never hurries, and never is what you call that
“go-go” business [laughter].
Like now, we had to go to the airport. You’ll find everybody
was like an aeroplane – round, round, round, round.
What has happened?
The whole thing is, all these excitements and all these things come to us because we are outside.
But if you are one with your Spirit you are absolutely calm, absolutely calm,
“All right,
we have to go, all right, we’ll reach there. Doesn’t matter.”
Why are you saving time? For what are you saving time?
So we miss the present, and that’s one thing Spirit never misses.
It’s always in the present.
That's the reality about it now. Now,
present moment, what are we doing
In a very calm way, witness it. Witness yourself, now, witness yourself. “Where is my mind going?”
Now somebody who has to cook must be thinking,
“Oh, I have to get this, I have to get
that”, everything.
Once you start saying that “I have to do it”, you’ll never be able to do it that way.
But you said, “All right, just now I’m in meditation.”
Every moment. “I am in meditation.”
Everything will walk up to you, even matter,
and you’ll get the right things at the right
place.
You’ll meet right people at the right place.
So when you are so much tied down with your watch,
that means you are not tied
down with your Spirit. down with your spirit.
So a Sahaja Yogi, if he sees watch, then he’s not a Sahaja Yogi.
But the other side could be that the Sahaja Yogis are never in time where they have to be.
now
to take for granted things, as you say, take for granted, that’s not the way Sahaja Yoga is.
You have to be alert, alert, absolutely alert.
If you are alert, immediately you’ll know
“I have to go now at this time.
I have to do it.
I have to get this thing now.”
If you have to
miss something, you are supposed to miss it.
That’s what it is.
So, there’s a beautiful thing written down, like they say, “Jai sei rakhahu tase hi rahun”
– “The way You keep me, the way I am, will be happy.”
So, satisfaction towards your Self, your Spirit, is important.
So for a person who is imbibed with the culture of Spirit, the Sahaj culture, impresses others
by his calmness and relaxed attitude.Relaxation never means lethargy, by any chance.
It doesn’t mean lethargy. Lethargy is against relaxation.
A person who is relaxed cannot become lethargic.
“Relaxed” means
a person who is alert and calm.
These two things for human beings is an impossibility
[laughter],
because if they are alert,
if they are alert then they are not calm.
If they are
unhappy, sad, then they think they are very, very calm.
So this is one of the things one has to remember,
that you have to witness yourself all the time. Not to condemn yourself, but witness.
Now I said the word “witness” means “detached”. Now what happens with this?
when
you start condemning yourself, you miss every good point.
You are a Spirit now, you are no more an ordinary human being,
so you have no business to condemn yourself,
or to degrade yourself, or in any way to feel unhappy.
No way.Past is past.
What happened a moment before is finished. “Now I am going to rise. Now I am going to rise.”
So a person who has a Sahaj culture is not only spontaneous, but is inspired,
is an inspired personality.
A person who is of that kind, an inspired visionary,
then other
people get impressed by such a person that,
“See, there’s a man who is inspired, who
talks in an inspired way,
in a way that is something very different from others.”
Something new he says,
new, that is nourishing. This is Sahaj culture,
in which you recognize a realized soul,
the dignity of a realized soul.
So when it comes to relating to others, first and foremost are Sahaja Yogis.
So the culture of Sahaj is to give. Give, and give, and give, and never ask for a reward.
Never thinks, “What I have to get”. After all, you have got the highest that anybody could get.
They said the three heights a human being can achieve in spirituality,
which you all got
in no time. It’s called as
salokya, samipya, sanidya.
You have got all these three. In one incarnation you’ve got it.
When Gods incarnated before, nobody knew that they were Gods.
So even they got it, they never knew.
So the three blessings that a saint is promised,
you’ve got all of them. But because you’ve got them, you don’t understand.
You take it for granted. There’s no shraddha.
With this experience there should be tremendous faith.
Faith is a thing
that resides between Me and you, in between.
Is we can say, the ocean of joy that is in
between.
Whatever I emit to you is that shraddha,
and when you are drenched into it, the joy of
that shraddha
makes everything so sahaj.
But for that you must open your hearts.
A Sahaja Yogi who is secretive, who is insular,
who is jealous,
who separates himself from others is no good.
Open your heart! Give away your things. Doesn't matter!
Matter has only one value, that it can communicate
your Sahaj culture.
Now if you become unhappy and serious, you are very unkind to yourself and to others.
Anybody who is a serious person, sits with a serious face, know that he is not a Sahaja Yogi at all.
They should be bubbling with laughter, joy all the time.
That’s how a person should be,
and don’t worry what others have to say.
You see, the
culture where people are just glum like this,
is the same as the people where they are
frivolous.
both things are nonsensical, has no meaning.
You have to be natural, and natural
everything is always bubbling with joy.
And a message. And a message. These flowers are the message of My coming, writ large on them.
So a person who is a Sahaj culture man should emit that message to others,
people
should see, “Oh, this is the man. He is the sahaja fellow.”
You can see that clearly.
The comfort of the Spirit is the thing we have lost,
and those who seek the comfort of
the Spirit are Sahaja Yogis, not otherwise.
Comfort of the Spirit comes in giving.
I have put you inside My body, do you know that?
You are part and parcel of My body,
you are the cells in My body.
And when you catch, I also catch; not catch, but I really
get the pain, but I clear it.
In the same way, I have given you powers.Every power I have, I have given you.
But you have to develop it and you have to be adventurous.
It’s surprising, for a Western person,
it is very important that it should be economical,
surprising,
affluent people think more of saving money than the people who are poor.
So with the affluence miserliness grows, and money-orientation.
In India also I’ve seen people who get little more money than the rest become very money-oriented.
You must know that your Kundalinis were not raised with just your own Kundalini,
but something that is working it out. Something very tremendous, a big organisation.
You can’t see it, it is microscopic.
You must know, nobody got realisation like that, did they?
Thousands getting realisation,
what’s happening? There must be something about…
Now how can you
tell anything to such an organisation? They don’t like it. They know
it.
Actually they are the ones who know, not the English. They know what is to be done.
So your relationship with Me acts as your culture.
So it is a Mother’s cult, you can call it, is the Mother’s culture. How we are connected with our Mother.
So in that culture, you see, you really thrive and
you become extremely a happy person, a joyous person.
and the
expression of such a person is so different,
because such a person, as I told
you, rises above and sees the problems of others,
the decadence of the society, sees
all the problems of the world.
Not only that, but knows the solutions.
So in this culture of ours we are not bothered about superficial things.
What we are
bothered about is our inner cleanliness,
inner beauty,
but that doesn’t mean that you
should move about
like primitive people, no.
But if there is inner beauty, then outer beauty comes in.
So a person who is a Sahaja Yogi has to be an extremely neat and a clean person,
but not to tell others, but should be himself or herself.
That’s one of the things are very
important, because others will see you
like loonies, who is going to believe you?
So the one effect is from the Mother, you take from the Source, for what?
To be that illuminated quality, in you,
so that others see you as something great
and adore you, worship you.
This is this far we have come, now, how your personality should be.
But now, when
you are dealing with others,
know that they are human beings made by God, not by
Sahaja Yogis by any chance.
And they will be tomorrow’s Sahaja Yogis, may be higher
Sahaja Yogis than you.
So when we are dealing with others also, talk to them in a gentle way.
Be kind to them.
So you are not given this power to be
abrupt or to be arrogant with others, not given.
Now all such people are coming down,
calming down because they see that what
helps is your gentle, kindly, firm attitude.
Only after Sahaja Yoga you can combine all these qualities.
You’ll be firm, you’ll be alert,
you’ll be gentle and compassionate, smiling, but not making fun of others.
So
then you become
a personality who is alert:
to see what is the reaction they are
having on others, this is very important to be seen.
So now you start witnessing
others. What is your reaction on others?
So the reflection on others, how they reflect about you also is very important, and you have to be alert.
Suddenly you say something, and everybody disappears.
You must know they are not yet Sahaja Yogis, they are to be brought in, so you have to very carefully bring them around.
Then with Sahaja Yogis, among yourselves how you
behave is extremely important for others to see.
We must cherish each other’s
company, we must cherish.
You must cherish their companies, because it’s such a great thing to have somebody who understands you, your Spirit,
and they have the Spirit. Such a great thing.
How can you be unkind to each other?
That hurts Me the most of all. And the first
thing and the foremost thing you have to give Me
is congenial, beautiful, loving
group,
that they love each other.
If that’s achieved that you really love, beyond your personal considerations.
I mean, of course, in Sahaja Yoga there are now not many people who try to make money,
but try to make comfort for themselves.
In the culture of Sahaja Yoga we have to have a full imbibement
bubbling through our nerves,
the sense of chastity.
That is a must, whether you like it or not.
There should
be no bad intentions
about any other person,
of relationships which are not pure.
Absolutely pure relationships, pure eyes without any adultery, adulteration I would
call it.
Clean eyes
is the basic of Sahaja Yoga.
Steadfast clean eyes,
because your eyes are
very powerful. You don’t know how powerful they are.
So to make it that way,
to
practice, move your attention inward and towards the Sahasrara.
You can.
With your eyes you suck in.
Even by looking at Me
with the shraddha, with the joy,
you just suck it inside, My image.
Put it on your Sahasrara, put it in your heart,
you can do it. It’s very joy-giving.
When you put it in the Sahasrara,
then you get the knowledge.
When you put it in your heart, you get the joy;
and when you put it on your liver, then
you get the power of action.
So in the culture
of Sahaj,
because the Spirit is the dignity, is the majesty, is the glory
of God,
you have to judge yourself.
“Did I say something which is not respecting my
Spirit?
Did I do something
that is not glorious?”  We don’t live with choices.
We live with whatever we get it,
and there is dignity in that.
If you start doing choices, it’s stupid.
Choices are not there in Sahaja Yoga, remember this word very clearly.
Choices of this, choices of that, I don’t like it, I like that. This is not good, that is not good.
Because we need everything on the level of vibrations,
then the choice is coming.
Like, if the vibrations are not good,
we’ll not say it,but we’ll not have it.
But not
question of whether green or red or yellow or white.
So you have to understand that when you are a Sahaj personality,
you have your own
dignity. These things do not give dignity to you.
You give them dignity.
But that doesn’t
mean tomorrow you come like a clown, or like a limbo on your nose.
When you become dignified, you will wear always something that is dignified.
You will do all that is dignified. Is automatically you become dignified.
It’s nothing artificial.
A person who is money-oriented cannot have dignity,
because you see him like a
beggar.
See, if there’s money-orientation is too much,
he comes down to that level, you can
see it, there cannot be dignity in that.
A man who is power-oriented is an idiot.
He looks like an idiot.
So we cannot become
idiots. All right. So we cannot be power-oriented.
Self-respect is the thing. Self is your Spirit.The respect of the Spirit should give you that dignity.
But in privacy you are gentle with your husband, you are gentle with your wife.
So we cannot do things which embarrasses our Mother.
Once you start knowing that,
“This will embarrass Mother, we can’t do this”, automatically you will be.
So when it is related with Me, immediately, “What will Mother think of in me?
Is this the way to behave towards Mother?” Immediately you will get the reward, as that thing working through you,
as if you become that nature. Sahaj culture is a sahaj nature. Automatically you will do it.
You’ll talk in that manner, you will speak in that manner, you’ll live in that manner.
We cannot be slavish, and we cannot enslave anyone.
We have to cherish, even
human beings we have to cherish,
because they are us. Not to despise anyone, not to
laugh at anyone.
In the culture of Sahaj,
you have to become an expert: expertise.
Expertise comes
through your adherence to your Mother.
Expertise: you all should be an expert,
and who will give you the certificate is your
Mother only – who else?
I may not say so,
but your Spirit will say that,
and not your ego.
Now, marriage. “What are we going to achieve out of marriage?”
A family, house,
everybody has, even a donkey has that [laughter].
What’s so great?
We are going to achieve a family unit where realized souls are to be born,
we are going to look after them in a proper way, and then we are going to emit that unit
into this world, like a sparkling diamond set in the beautiful setting of a family,
giving light
to the whole world.
So one’s life should not be pointless,
and talk should not be pointless,
and every moment should be filled with achievements of your visions and dreams,
slowly and
steadily,
which is not at all difficult.
If you can get rid of ego and superego, finished, that’s all – simple as that [laughter,
Shri Mataji laughs].
May God bless you all.